All right, we are going to be doing
the C part of CRUD, which is we're actually going
to be creating an item, and then we're going to be doing
that via the sell page, where we have a little form here
that takes in a title, a price, as well as a description
for the item, and then you can also go ahead
and upload an image.
We're gonna hold on the image part until the next video
and that's where we're going to learn
how to interface with external upload APIs.
Specifically, we're going to be
using one called Cloudinary.
So, open up your sell.js file and then also open up--
Or actually, we have to create this ourselves.
Go into your components folder and make a capital C,
capital I, CreateItem.js and we will scaffold
out a little react component there--
Ooh, that was a wrong one.
RRC, oh, that's for redux.
RCC.
Beautiful.
I also like to export them at the bottom.
CreateItem.
Very good.
We also need a couple more things to import here.
We're gonna import the mutation component from react-apollo.
That's going to allow us to actually push data.
Remember query mutation.
Query is when you pull data, mutation is when you push
and actually make it change.
We are also going to import the form tag from our styles.
So, import form from styles/Form, capital F Form.
We need that formatMoney function that we've used before
and we also need GraphQL, GQL.
So, input gql from graphql-tag.
And we got couple more things we want to import
But let's pump the brakes on importing things
until we actually need it so we can
actually understand what they do.
So first thing: let's just render out a form tag,
capital F Form, and inside of that,
give yourself an H2 that says sell an item.
Then we'll go to our sell page over here
and, oh--
Obviously it's not working yet
because we have to go back to our sell page,
import the CreateItem method from our components.
Do do do.
Components/CreateItem, there we go.
And then we can replace this paragraph tag here
with the CreateItem component,
Sell an item.
Looking good!
Okay next, what we want to do is I actually want a fieldset
and I'll explain why I want a fieldset
in just a quick second.
And then, inside of that we need a bunch of inputs.
Let's take a look at here.
So, first one is for title.
I'm going to have it label
and I'm going to call that title.
So we use htmlFor in React instead of regular for,
just because for is a reserved word in JavaScript.
So they use htmlFor, so that's for title.
Then I'm going to do my title, there.
And then we want to input type of text,
id of title and name of title,
placeholder of title, a required attribute.
Now, let's talk about where the data is going to come from.
This CreateItem is going to have a local state inside of it.
And this is kind of cool because you might think,
"Oh we're using Apollo, we have no need for state."
But state is really helpful for when you want
to just contain data locally within a component.
And before we actually send all the data to our GraphQL API,
we need to store it somewhere, right?
So we're going to be temporarily storing that in state.
So we're actually gonna go up here,
and we're gonna say state, statte!
State is equal to, and our state is going to have
a default state of the following values:
title nothing, description nothing, image, large image,
all those empty strings, and then price is going
to be zero, which is an empty number.
Then what we can do here is we can say the value
is bound to state, so this.state.title.
Let's see how that looks.
Oh, cannot read title of undefined.
Why not?
Maybe this is one of those ones that I need to just refresh.
Yeah, that was one of those ones where I had to refresh
and if I put something in title like cool shoes.
Now, when you go ahead and try to change the value in here,
it actually won't work and if we open
up our dev tools, we're going to see why.
"Failed prop type: you provided value prop
"to a form field without an onChange handler.
"This will render a read-only field."
So, the idea behind these inputs with React
is that if you ever tie something
that is changeable in the dom to state,
then you're in a little bit of hot water
because now there's two places where that data lives.
That data lives in your text area, as well as in state,
and the whole idea with react is that you always
want a single source of truth,
and you always want your data to live in one spot.
So, the way that you handle that, when it actually changes,
is kind of a bit of a roundabout where you listen
for the change event on this input, you intercept
that event, you grab the value that the user had hoped they
had typed, and then you set that to state,
which will then actually make the input change.
It's just this whole roundabout way.
So, let's do an onChange handler for this input here.
So let's say OnChange is equal to and we'll just say
this.handleChange and then we'll go up here
and we'll make a method handleChange.
The reason why we make that an arrow function
is that because--
This is what is called an instance property
and inside of this, we're going to be able to access this,
which is important 'cause we need
to call this.setState, right?
If this was a regular method,
ES6 classes do not bind regular methods
to the instance of the property.
And then if you've taken my React for Beginners course,
you know you have to do this terrible thing
where you have your constructor
and you call super and then you say
this.handleChange = this.handleChange.bind(this)
and that's a bit of a mess.
But what that does is where you do have access to this,
you overwrite the handleChange function
and you bind it to that instance of this.
So, nightmare situation.
So, the way that we can get around
that is with instance properties.
Indent setting it to an arrow function
and that will then we able to access this
and all of the other things that we need.
So, handleChange will give us an event.
And let's just actually console.log the event
and see what we're working with here.
So, open up your dev tools.
See, I'm gonna type the letter 'x'
or any time I type a letter, we get the event
and inside of that event is a number of things
but the target is actually what we're looking for.
So, let's e.target,
that's the input, .value.
So, cool shoesx.
See, it's telling us what we wish we had typed, cool shoesx,
but then React automatically backspaces it and goes,
"Uh-uh-uh, not allowed,"
because then you have your state in two places.
So, what we need to do is we say this.setState
and we'll say the title is going to be e.target.value.
And then you type in an 'x' and that allows us
to actually type into here.
And if we were to inspect that component here,
and we find our CreateItem, you see
that the title state is being updated as I type.
Now, we can make this handleChange function
a little bit more resilient and it can be reused
for all of the different inputs
that we have on that specific page.
So, first thing we want to do is we want
to get the name, the type, and the value.
So, say const  = e.target
and what that's going to do is it's going to give us access
to the input's name, the input's type, and the input's value
And we can just go ahead and console.log all three of those.
It's a little trick I like to do instead
of just console logging name, type, value.
Here, let me show you what that looks like.
The name of title, the type of text, so the name,
which comes from here, the type, which is text,
and then the value is whatever someone
had typed into that box.
But what I like to do is to wrap it in curly brackets
and then it actually gives you some keys for it
so you know exactly what you're looking at.
That's just using ES6.
It's the same thing as saying name: name,
type: type, value: value.
So, that's good.
We have those values there.
Then what we need to do is say const val is equal to,
and if this is a number, we need to make sure
that it is a proper number because any text that comes out
of an input, even if it's a type of number,
it will still come out as a string
and we need to coerce that into a proper number.
So, we'll say if the
type === number ? parseFloat(value) : value.
Otherwise, we're just going to return the regular value.
So, we have this new variable called val.
Gotta get that out of there, I accidentally typed that.
And then we can modify this.setState
to be not e.target.value but just with val.
Let's see if it's still working.
Still works great.
However, we don't want to make this function just work
for the title input, we want to make it work for any input.
So, what we can use is computed property names
where we can set the name of it
and that's going to be title, price, description,
file, any input that we have,
and then it will mirror that change to state.
So, let's see if it still works.
Very nicely.
Now, that means that we should be able
to take this one label that we have here,
paste it, change this over to price,
change the input type to a number,
call Price,
and I should be able to--
There we go.
Use these inputs or actually paste a regular number in there
and then the values in my React
state
are looking good.
That's a bit of an expensive thing to buy.
There we go.
You can see that there's no quotes around it
because we're doing that little check.
So, I love this little handleChange event handler
that I have because it's just a couple lines of code
and it allows you to mirror multiple inputs to your state
so that if you were adding more inputs in the future,
there's no extra handlers that you would have to create.
So, let's do the last one for the description.
(imitates trumpet)
Label for description and--
Oh, this shouldn't be title, this should be price,
description.
This is going to be a text area and normally in HTML,
you're not allowed to self-close a text area
but because it's React, it's smart enough to know.
As well as normally, a text area cannot have a value prop
but in React it can because we can bind
that to our specific state.
So, input type--
Oh, who's here?
Oh ho ho! (laughs)
My wife got some Sephora.
Thank you!
Okay, oh, that's enough of that.
So, let's (laughs) go back here.
Type, number, don't need that.
Id=description, name=description,
placeholder=Enter A Description, required attribute
the value is going to be set to this.state.description,
and then the onChange.
So, let's see if that still works.
Beautiful.
You can see it's being mirrored to my state here
and the price just works just fine.
Cool.
Now, what we want to do is we need a button for submit.
So, button type=submit and that's going to say Submit.
And normally, when you go ahead and submit this,
it's actually just going to put it all in the URL bar,
which is not what we want to do so we need to listen
for the submit event on this form
and actually push it up to our server.
So, let's do that here.
I'll say Form onSubmit is equal to curly brackets--
We can actually do this right in line
because the submit event handler is just going
to be a couple lines of code.
So, say we got the event.
The first thing you want to do
with the form is call it e.preventDefault.
That's going to stop the form from actually submitting
and that's going to stop that, like,
URL thing that was happening earlier.
And then let's just console.log(this.state)
to see what we're working with.
So, one thing I do like to do when I'm testing
this stuff out all the time is just put some default content
into my states so I'm not spending my whole day
just typing in random boxes.
So, dog.jpg,
Large-dog.jpg, and price 1000.
Now, if I refresh this now all I have to do is
hit the submit button and you see
that we are stopping the form from submitting
and we actually have our state.
Good!
Now, here's the question.
How do we get it to push the data to our GraphQL server?
And that's done with a mutation but the question is, like,
"How do I do that?
"Like, where do I send the data?
"Do I send it to mutation?"
And we first need to write a query that is going
to submit the data and then we need
to expose that query's function to our form tag here
via a mutation component.
So, what we'll do up here is we'll write
our query for the mutation.
CREATE_ITEM_MUTATION.
You see how I always finish off my variables
with _mutation or _query?
That's gonna help you in the long run,
especially once we hit testing.
You know that you need to mock it up in a specific way.
And that is going to be equal to gql``.
And before we even do anything more,
what we want to do is actually export this.
And that's going to be useful for both testing much later
in this course, as well as sharing
this query amongst other components.
So, let's export that.
We've already used the default export
so we can use a named export in ES6 to export that.
I think we also need to do that for items as well
where we have this ALL_ITEMS_QUERY.
Let's export the ALL_ITEMS_QUERY
'cause we're gonna need that throughout the application.
Uh, unexpected, oof.
Oof, what happened?
Oh, it's GraphQL error 'cause I haven't
actually written anything in here.
No problem.
We're going to write a mutation
called CREATE_ITEM_MUTATION and that is going
to run the createItem, remember?
Let's go to our schema real quick.
Oh, it's not on.
This is the front end.
Let's go to our back end, let's open up our schema.
What is our mutation called?
It's called createItem.
So then we can hop here, we can call createItem.
What are the arguments that it takes?
Well, it takes a title, a description, a price,
an image, and a largeImage,
so, we'll hop back here, we'll run that createItem,
and we will paste them in.
I like to put them each on their own line.
Now, what's going on here?
How do we, like, get the data to these ones?
We title this.state but, like, this is a separate query.
How does it know the data that is in here?
And that's where we need to set up our queries
and mutations to actually accept arguments.
So, we can go into this mutation CREATE_ITEM_MUTATION
and we're going to say that it's going
to take a bunch of arguments and those arguments
are going to be of the same name, title, description, price,
image, and we have to type them out.
So, this is going to be a string that is required.
It's going to be a description that is required.
This is going to be an int that is required.
This is a string that is not required.
And this is a string that is also not required.
Then, what that will do is when you call this
CREATE_ITEM_MUTATION mutation,
we're going to pass it arguments of these names
with these types and they're going to be available
to us via variables inside of here.
So, this gets a little bit weird but we basically
just have to take all of those
and say use the variable of the exact same name.
And then from that query, we are going to return the id.
So, woo!
Let's actually--
Let me just tone that down to see
exactly what we're working with.
Imagine that was just title
and we'll put that on their own lines.
So, this is sort of like a function called
CREATE_ITEM_MUTATION and that is going
to take in one variable called title,
which you should expect it to be a string.
Now, when it is called, run the actual mutation
called createItem, which we've previously specified
in our schema that's the back end,
and then use the passed in variable as title.
So, anything that gets passed in here called title
is available inside of it via dollar
and you can reference it.
The fact that they're exactly the same name is just
because that's what I've done but you could really just
pass in a string in here if you wanted
but we are passing them in as variables.
So, let's back that back up to what we have.
Do do do.
So, our mutation takes five arguments.
Then we will run it with these five arguments,
passing each as a variable, and then we simply just care
about getting the item's id back once it has been created.
So, what do we got here?
"Expected dollar, found name."
Oh, I forgot to put dollar signs in front of all of these.
And that also helps the syntax as well.
So, the variable title is going to be a string when called
and then it's available to us with the variable title.
Give that a save.
Looks like it's working.
So, that is our mutation query that we have.
Now, we want to go down here into our component
and actually expose this CREATE_ITEM_MUTATION function.
So, how do we do that?
Well, we're going to wrap our entire form tag
in a mutation component.
So, we go up here, say Mutation,
and then Mutation is going to take a query
and the query is going to be the CREATE_ITEM_MUTATION.
A couple other things that need to be passed along.
The variables that are passed when the mutation runs.
They can be specified in the actual component itself.
You can also pass them at run time
when you actually call the function
but I prefer to do it in the component here.
So, we'll say variables is equal to.
Well, what are the variables?
This.state, right?
So, when this mutation fires, it's just going to take a copy
of this.state and send all of those values along
for the ride, which just so happens to line up with all
of the things that it's expecting.
So, that's good.
Then, just like query, the only child of a mutation
or a query can be an actual function.
So, let's write a little function that we have here.
And this one is a little bit different.
Instead of taking a payload, just a payload,
it gives us the mutationfunction and the payload.
And instead of calling it mutationfunction and payload,
I like to call it createItem.
I like to always just match it up with
what it looks like on the server side.
And then you can destructure this payload similarly
to how we did it last time.
And we only care about loading and error.
There's also one called called here, as well as data.
Called will give you a Boolean if it's been run or not
and data will give you the data that has actually come back
but we don't care about those two
and I'll show you why in just a second.
Then, from here, you wanna return some JSX
but what we actually want to return
from this is everything down here.
So, what we'll do instead of having an explicit return
where you return, like, a paragraph tag that says hey,
we'll simply just replace these curly brackets here
with parentheses and that will give us
what's called an implicit return in ES6.
An implicit return is it will just return whatever is there
without actually having to use the return keyword.
Then we take this one and this one
and we're going to, do do do, go for a bit of a ride
all the way down to the closing form tag.
Do do do, do do do.
There we go.
Thank goodness for Prettier 'cause I'm gonna give it a save
and all of my indentation will work just fine.
So, let's take a quick look at what we've got going on here.
"Argument undefined passed to parser
"was not a valid GraphQL DocumentNode."
Why not?
So, this error is telling us that the mutation
that we passed in, this little query
that we wrote here, is not valid.
And I took a quick look at my answer
and this is actually not query, it's mutation.
So, if it's a query component then you pass it in query.
If it's a mutation component then it's a mutation.
Makes sense to me.
I just forgot about that.
So, if we give that a save, now everything works to us.
Now, all of that work was to just do a couple things.
First, we want to expose this createItem function
and then second, we also want
to expose the loading and the error state.
So, let's start with the error state first.
So, I've given you a component called ErrorMessage.js
and that's just in our components thing right here.
And what we're doing here is we first have some ErrorStyles
that we have but this essentially just takes
in any type of error that might come in,
either a singular error or an array of errors.
So, Apollo will give us two different types of errors.
It'll give us a network error,
which will always have multiple,
or it will just give us a singular error,
which we can put in there.
So, what this does it either loops over each one
and displays an error at the top of the page for us,
and then I also just replaced the words GraphQL error
with nothing, or it just gives us that one error
in a paragraph tag with some nice styles on it
and it even shows us the actual error message.
So, we get to reuse this throughout our entire application.
Let's import that real quick.
So, import Error from './ErrorMessage'.
You can call it ErrorMessages if you want.
I'm just gonna call it Error.
Then we'll go down into here and in this case,
we actually don't want to show only the error
or the form, we want to show both.
And the reason behind that is because sometimes we're going
to try to submit it and it's gonna tell us that something
was wrong with one of our fields
and we want to be able to fix it and hit submit again.
So, just above this fieldset here we're gonna give ourselves
an error component and we'll pass the error of error
and if there is any sort of error, this component
is going to render itself out.
Otherwise, it's not going to render anything to the page.
So, good, we took care of that.
Next, let's take care of the loading.
Now, the loading is kind of interesting in this case
because as soon as we hit submit,
what's gonna happen is that it's gonna go off
to the back end and then come back, hopefully quickly
but it could take a second or two depending
on network and server conditions.
So, we want to stop the user from being able to mess
with this, edit it, or hit the submit button again
and one way that I really like to do that is
to wrap everything in what's called a fieldset.
A fieldset takes a disabled attribute where you can set it
to true and that will just gray everything out.
See how I can't submit and I can't change these?
Because it's set to true.
But I can just set that to loading and if loading is true,
then it will be disabled and if loading is not true,
if it's false, then it won't be disabled.
Then I also like to add the aria-busy attribute.
This is for accessibility.
It will tell the user if this group of fields is busy or not
So, we just set that on there as well.
And I really like that because first, it's accessible,
it's great for your users, but second, what it's going to do
when we turn that to true, let's turn both of them to true,
is it's going to do this little animation that we have there
And let me just show you real quick what you've done there.
If we open up the form styles, we say...
The fieldset has a before pseudo-element
that has a height of ten pixels
and a background of this linear-gradient.
However, when the fieldset also has an aria-busy attribute
on it, I'm just applying an animation
of loading over half a second.
And then if we go up here, in styled-components
this is how you do keyframes.
You just import the keyframes from styled-components
and then you write your keyframes
just as you normally would in CSS.
And I'm just going from background-position zero
to background-position 100.
I tried to do some fun stuff with--
Here, let me show you
what happens here with that.
Woo!
So, obviously that's not (laughs) usable
but you can leave it in there and have some fun with it.
So, anything from anything it will animate it from one
to another and that's just a nice way to do loading.
You both disable it and show the user
that something is happening.
So, let's go back to this createItem here.
We'll turn our disabled and aria-busy
over to the loading attribute and then--
That's what I really like about Apollo is that it's going
to flip those loadings onto true or false for us
and we don't have to worry about turning Booleans on and off
ourselves because it will give us all of that for us.
Good.
The last thing we (laughs) actually need to do is
go ahead and handle the actual submit.
'Cause if I submit this thing right now,
you see that we're just getting a console log
of the data that is in there.
So, what we can do and say
const res = await createItem function, right?
CreateItem is how we exposed it via the mutation render prop
and then we have access to it here.
Now, we also need to make this an async function
so that we can await inside of it
and then we simply just console.log the response
to see exactly what we're working with here.
So, I'm just gonna give it a refresh,
make sure I'm coming at it fresh, give it a submit.
What came back?
Data, createItem, and it came back with the id
of the item that has been created.
So, we can actually go ahead and look in our Prisma database
to see if this new item has been created.
There it is.
I love those--
Did I write, "I love those context"?
What am I doing?
Shoes!
Is what I love and that item has come in there.
Now, we don't want to just do that 'cause--
You see how it just temporarily ran that
and then brought it back?
There's a couple things that we actually want to do.
So, let's go inside of this event handler here.
So, let's write some comments.
Stop the form from submitting.
Call the mutation.
And then we are going to change them to the single item page
So, what's going to happen after they create the item?
We're going to bring them to this page.
Here, let me show you here.
This page item id and then we're going
to use the item id in there to route them.
So, how do you programmatically route someone?
We've only been routing people via the link tag.
Well, what we can do is import the Router from next/router,
bring that up a level so that it comes before our imports
and then down here, where we console logged the response,
we're gonna say Router.push pathname is going to be /item
and the query is going to be--
This is exactly how we passed it to our link tag.
The item is going to be the res.data.createItem.id
and that's going to give us the actual id.
You see how we drilled a little bit deep?
Let's just give it a quick test.
Say it's a Canada Goose jacket for that much and super cool.
Go ahead and submit it
and it routes us to the specific page that we want.
Good.
We are going to have to come back to this
'cause we're going to hit a little issue with our pagination
but for now, it's working and when we hit pagination,
we're gonna come back and modify this component
just a little bit so that we can do something
called re-fetching queries where we can re-fetch the items
that are on the home page.
So, I'll see you in the next video where we deal with images